h1. Sitemap

This plugin will generate a sitemap.xml or sitemap.xml.gz from sitemap.rb whose format is very similar to routes.rb, and ping search engine to update sitemap.xml or sitemap.xml.gz.
It supports resources, namespace, root, connect, named_route and nested routes like routes.rb and add some additional keyword substitution and priority for sitemap.

****************************************************************************

h2. Install

* install dependency gem builder
<pre><code>sudo gem install builder</code></pre>

* install sitemap plugin
<pre><code>script/plugin install git://github.com/flyerhzm/sitemap.git</code></pre>

****************************************************************************

h2. Example

* Create <code>config/sitemap.rb</code> file, or you can copy <code>config/routes.rb</code> to <code>config/sitemap.rb</code>

  At first, you should define host (required) and default priority (optional) in <code>config/sitemap.rb</code> for sitemap.

<pre><code>
Sitemap::Routes.host = 'http://www.sitemap.com'
Sitemap::Routes.priority = 0.8    # default is 1.0
</code></pre>

  Then, you can define the routes for sitemap.

<pre><code>
Sitemap::Routes.draw do |map|
  # resources routes
  map.resources :posts, :collection => {:all => :get}, :member => {:display => :get}, :has_many => :comments

  # root routes
  map.root :controller => 'posts', :action => 'index'

  # namespace routes
  map.namespace(:admin) do |admin|
    admin.resources :posts
  end

  # connect routes which need additional keyword :substitution, 
  # this is a hash, one of the key/value pairs define model name, 
  # the others define which attribute value of the model replace the connect keyword. 
  # As the route defines below, the url will be replaced with "posts/#{post.year}/#{post.month}/#{post.day}", the post the object of Post
  map.connect 'posts/:year/:month/:day', :controller => 'posts', :action => 'find_by_date', :substitution => {:model => 'Post', :year => 'year', :month => 'month', :day => 'day'}

  # connect routes, you can also use substitution for an array substitution
  map.connect 'posts/:locale', :controller => 'posts', :action => 'index', :substitution => {:locale => ['en', 'zh', 'fr']}

  # named_route routes, these routes should use :substitution keyword if necessary
  map.sitemap '/sitemap', :controller => 'sitemaps', :action => 'index'

  # nested routes
  map.resources :categories, :except => ['index', 'show'] do |category|
    category.resources :posts, :except => 'show'
  end

  # define priority for routes, this can be applied to every route
  map.sitemap '/sitemap', :controller => 'sitemaps', :action => 'index', :priority => 0.8
  map.root :controller => 'posts', :action => 'index', :priority => 0.5

  # define changefreq for routes, this can be applied to every route
  map.sitemap '/sitemap', :controller => 'sitemaps', :action => 'index', :changefreq => Sitemap::ChangeFreq::ALWAYS
  map.root :controller => 'posts', :action => 'index', :changefreq => Sitemap::ChangeFreq::MONTHLY
end
</code></pre>

*Important*: substitution keyword can only define one model, if you need replace attributes in two models or more, I recommend you define a virtual attribute, or use delegate.

*Important*: You can check the spec/sitemap_spec.rb to see the use of Sitemap::Routes.


* run rake task.

  <code>rake sitemap:generate</code> or <code>rake sitemap:generate FORMAT=gzip</code>, the sitemap.xml or sitemap.xml.gz (version 0.9) will be generated under public directory.

  <code>rake sitemap:ping</code> or <code>rake sitemap:ping SEARCH_ENGINE=google,bing FORMAT=gzip</code>, tell search engine to update the sitemap.xml or sitemap.xml.gz, now support google, bing, yahoo and ask.

  The generated sitemap.xml is as follows:

<pre><code>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>0.5</priority>
    <changefreq>monthly</changefreq>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/sitemap</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>0.8</priority>
    <changefreq>always</changefreq>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/1</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/2</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/all</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/1/display</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/2/display</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/admin/posts</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/admin/posts/1</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/admin/posts/2</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/2009/8/9</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/posts/2009/8/10</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/categories/1/posts</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>http://www.sitemap.com/categories/2/posts</loc>
    <lastmod>2009-08-09</lastmod>
    <priority>1.0</priority>
  </url>
</urlset>
</code></pre> 
  

Copyright (c) 2009 Richard Huang (flyerhzm@gmail.com), released under the MIT license
